Dodgers win World Series after thrilling comeback

MLB: Dodgers win World Series with 'comeback for the ages'

The Los Angeles Dodgers clinched the 2024 World Series after recovering from 5-0 down to beat the New York Yankees 7-6 at Yankee Stadium and seal a 4-1 series victory.

A topsy-turvy game was turned upside down at its halfway point as the Dodgers exploited Yankees fielding errors in the top of the fifth inning to level the scores.

"We just took advantage of every mistake they made in that inning and scored five runs," left fielder Teoscar Hernandez said.

"The bullpen and the pitching staff gave us the chance to stay in the game. It's a dream come true."

It is a second title in five years for the National League champions, who had previously won in the Covid-shortened 2020 season.

Facing elimination, the Yankees came out swinging in the Bronx as back-to-back first-inning home runs by Aaron Judge and Jazz Chisholm Jr put them 3-0 up.

When Alex Verdugo drove in Anthony Volpe in the second, Dodgers starting pitcher Jack Flaherty was hooked, and Giancarlo Stanton's solo shot made it 5-0 in the third.

Yankees starter Gerrit Cole was flawless for four innings, but the Dodgers rallied after Judge fluffed a routine catch in centre field in the fifth, loading the bases with no outs before Mookie Betts, Freddie Freeman and Hernandez all drove in runs to make it 5-5.

Stanton's sacrifice fly in the sixth edged the Yankees in front again, but the Dodgers hit back in the eighth with two sacrifice flies of their own to lead 7-6.

Having burned through six relievers after Flaherty's early exit, the Dodgers turned to game three's starter Walker Buehler to pitch the ninth with a one-run lead, but he retired all three batters he faced to seal the title.

"Who wants a parade?" yelled manager Dave Roberts, referring to the pandemic that had limited their celebrations in 2020.

Ohtani-mania sweeps LA as Dodgers battle for World Series title
Published
31 October
Dodgers ride Ohtani hype train as supporting cast steps up

02:14
Media caption,
MLB: Dodgers make 'incredible' five-run comeback during World Series win

Much of the pre-series attention had been on Japanese superstar Shohei Ohtani, making his first appearance in the post-season after a stellar first year with the Dodgers.

The 30-year-old is a rare 'two-way' player, able to compete at the highest level as both a hitter and a pitcher, but did not pitch during 2024 after having elbow surgery.

He was further hampered in the World Series after injuring his shoulder sliding into second base in game two, and a series record of two hits from 19 plate appearances as designated hitter was modest by his standards.

But the Dodgers showed their strength in depth as Freeman, carrying an ankle injury, led the offence spectacularly, assisted by Betts who now has three World Series rings to his name.

While the Yankees' fielding and baserunning was occasionally sloppy, the Dodgers gave no quarter, and this final game exemplified how their injury-hit pitching staff collectively pulled together to help deliver the title.

World Series results & reports
Game 1: Dodgers 6-3 Yankees

Game 2: Dodgers 4-2 Yankees

Game 3: Yankees 2-4 Dodgers

Game 4: Yankees 11-4 Dodgers

Game 5: Yankees 6-7 Dodgers

Home team listed first.

Los Angeles Dodgers players celebrate after winning the World Series

The Dodgers set a record for the biggest comeback in a World Series-clinching game, having trailed 5-0 after three innings

Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman Freddie Freeman celebrates after driving in two runs in the fifth inning

Freddie Freeman was named as the series' most valuable player. Although he failed to extend his record home run streak, he set another World Series record with 12 runs batted in

New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge hits Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Jack Flaherty for a home run

Yankees star hitter Aaron Judge launched his first World Series home run, but was later charged with a fielding error which sparked the Dodgers' comeback

Los Angeles Dodgers fans celebrate in Tokyo

Although Japanese superstar Shohei Ohtani went hitless from four at-bats in game five, he was cheered on by some of his many fans in Tokyo

